============
Get Started
============


Simplest way to run
===================

- Prepare the `INPUT` file and the input file for first principlec code
- Enter the folder
- Simply run ``elastic3rd run``


Inputs
======

The inputs for Elastic3rd can be divided into two parts. The first one is the INPUT file, and the second is the input files for first princples code.

INPUT
-----

===========  =======  =======================================================================================
Parameters   Default  Comments
===========  =======  =======================================================================================
BaseName     Si       The folder name of the result. In addition, 
                        For CASTEP, it must equals to the name of *cell* and *param* file
                        For VASP, no above required
CrystalType  Cubic1   The symmetry of the crystal. It should be one of the followings
                        triclinic or n, monoclinic or m, orthorhombic or o, tetragonal1 or t1
                        tetragonal2 or t2, rhombohedral1 or r1, rhombohedral2 or r2
                        hexagonal1 or h1, hexagonal2 or h2, cubic1 or c1, cubic2 or c2
Ord          3        The order of elastic constants
EnergyCode   CASTEP   The first principles code, currently support CASTEP and VASP
EnergyRun    1        The way to run the first principles code
                        1 is the default way. For CASTEP: RunCASTEP -np NP BaseName
                                              For VASP: mpirun -np NP vasp_std
                        0 means user defined. It will read the *energyrun* file in elastic3rd/energy folder.
                          And it can be overwrite by elastic3rd.energy.glue.write_energyrun(RunStr) function
MaxStrain    5        The maximum strain, in unit of %. e.g. 5 means the strain range is -5% to 5%
STEPS        5        The number of points in each strain mode
NP           1        The number of cores used in the first principles codes
===========  =======  =======================================================================================

First principles inputs
-----------------------
- CASTEP
  For CASTEP, two files are required for calculating, *BaseName.cell* and *BaseName.param*. For details, ref. `CASTEP files`_ .

.. _`CASTEP files`: http://www.tcm.phy.cam.ac.uk/castep/documentation/WebHelp/content/modules/castep/expcastepfileformats.htm

- VASP
  To run VASP, four files are required: *INCAR*, *POSCAR*, *KPOINTS* and *POTCAR*. For details, ref. `VASP files`_ .

.. _`VASP files`: https://www.vasp.at/wiki/index.php/Category:Input_Files


Outputs
=======

The structure of outputs
------------------------
All the output are stored in the folder named BaseName, of which the value is set in INPUT file. The following is the structure of the results.

```
BaseName
|INPUT
|EEnergy.txt
|__Mode0
|__Mode1
  |__Strain1
     |__Energy_Strain.txt
     |__...
  |__Strain2
     |__...
  |__Strain3
  |__...
  |__Energy_Mode.txt
|__Mode2
  |__Strain1
  |__Strain2
  |__Strain3
  |__......
|__......
```

Output files
------------
This section gives an explanation for each file generated by Elastic3rd.

=================  =================================================================================
File name          Comments
=================  =================================================================================
INPUT              A backup of INPUT file
EEnergy.txt        The energy of each strain mode(each column) and each strain(each row)
Energy_Strain.txt  The energy of single strain, in which there are several values in different unit
Energy_Mode.txt    The eneargy of single strain mode. In unit of eV
=================  =================================================================================

=======  ========================================================
Folders  Comments
=======  ========================================================
Mode0    This folder contains the result of undeformed structure
ModeN    This folder contains the result of differen strain modes
StrainN  This folder contains the result of different strains
=======  ========================================================

Note: here N is integer and N>0

Log file
--------

By default, the log file is not saved, but print in the screen. And it can be saved by re-direction.